>> Hello and welcome to
the Haskell Weekly podcast.
This is a show about Haskell, a purely
functional programming language.
I'm your host Taylor Fausak.
I'm the director of software
engineering at ACI learning.
With me today is Cameron Gera,
one of the engineers on my team.
Thanks for joining me today, Cam.
>> Glad to be back.
It's a second week in a row.
We're starting to get back into the swing
of things with Haskell weekly podcast.
So thank you guys for listening today.
Uh, we're going to do something
a little different today due to a
comment we received from a listener.
Uh, and they wanted to kind of
hear about what does software
engineering look like at ACI learning.
And what's our processes, and
how many services do we have,
and what do those services do?
So we're going to kind of take
a deep dive into that today.
Our hope is to only have
one episode of this.
But if we seem to be coming over,
uh, just going to give you guys
a heads up, that we may have two.
But, uh, yeah.
So Taylor, why don't you get us started
with a little high, high level process,
infrastructure, that kind of thing.
So we can kind of drill
down into the rest.
>> Yeah, as you mentioned, this
was prompted by a comment and I assume
the person was more interested in
kind of the Haskell side of things.
So that's what we're going to focus
on, but to give context, um, we
developed software using the acid,
uh, excuse me, agile methodology.
>> Um,
>> acid.
Yeah.
Uh, well, everyone has a different
definition of agile, so ours can be added.
Uh, but we use agile, which just means
that we're constantly getting feedback
and making improvements and iterating.
And the tool that we use to manage
our workflow from a high level
is clubhouse, not the video chat
application, but the one that is soon
going to be called shortcut instead.
And we use that more or less as a Kanban
board to keep track of all the stories
or tasks that we want to accomplish
and track them as they move through
our workflow, starting from ready
for development all the way through.
In production in our user's hands.
Um, from the code side of things like
many software shops, we manage our
code in GitHub, and most of the code
goes through kind of the normal GitHub
PR process where somebody pushes up
a branch, they open up a PR for it.
So, uh, at least one person on the
team reviews that PR and then we hit
the big green button on GitHub and it
gets merged into master at that point.
Uh, it kicks off a
continuous integration build.
We use Semaphore to manage
our continuous integration.
So if, or sorry, the, the build
actually happens before that, but
also once it's merged into the main
branch, uh, Semaphore, will build
it and produce a build artifact,
which in our case is a bunch of.
Docker container images, and
it will push those over to AWS.
And then we use AWS far gate for
most of our services, and those
will launch all the new versions
of all those Docker images and
get it out into our users' hands.
Uh, we use a bunch of AWS services,
not really worth enumerating all of
them right now, but as I mentioned,
we use far gate and we have several
Haskell services running in production.
our current Best guest count
is that we have seven of them.
Um, and we may say their names later on.
So just for context, their names
are Urza, ion nucleus, Jeff, Shelob,
quantum and buffer processor.
So some of them are descriptive.
Some of them are a little more imaginative
and some of them are just people's names.
So, um, yeah, those are the.
Those are the processes we use, the
infrastructure we deploy to and the
names and number of our Haskell services.
But I'm sure the listeners are much more
interested in how we write that Haskell.
So, cam, do you want to
kind of dive into that?
>> Uh, yeah.
So with these multiple services,
they all have multiple functions.
Um, and.
Through time we've we have kind of a
set of APIs that are all in Haskell,
and then we have some other of these
services that manage, uh, you know,
scheduling and managing like a job queue,
um, you know, updating some third-party
services on a continuous continuous
basis, uh, allowing us to integrate, uh,
the organizations teams, uh, Something
that it can happen on the backend.
So that's kinda what Shelob is.
And then, um, something to kind of
aggregate and handle metrics, which
is kind of the buffer processor.
So those services are kind
of like kind of what they do.
Um, and Urza, Ion, a nucleus  being
the APIs, nucleus was the first one.
So this was we're all learning Haskell.
We were all kind of figuring it out.
Like Taylor had been a pro you know,
kinda had come in to help guide us.
Previously started with Elm.
So we've been, you know, with nucleus,
we kind of took some of the, the
easier to, to digest, uh, choices like
using, uh, technologies like half stack
and Orville for an ORM for Postgres.
Um, and like Happstack being our
web server, uh, kind of a little
more loosey goosey, um, and the
abilities and what it can do.
And so that was where we kind of started
and we said, okay, like, let's figure out.
What we can do better.
And that's where new ion came in.
And then from there.
We have one question
coming from the audience.
>> Yeah.
I just wanted to jump in and say that,
uh, Orville isn't one of the more
well-known Haskell ORM, uh, libraries.
And that was developed by flip stone,
which is a contracting firm that was
working with it pro TV back in the day
when I started several years ago and, uh,
you know, great library, very happy to
use it, but similar to hap stack in that,
um, most of the checks happen at runtime.
Rather than at compile time.
So just if y'all want to look it up,
uh, github.com/flipstone/orville.
>> Yep.
And uh, if you guys want, we can
also post the links to all of this
kind of stuff we're talking about it.
We're not going to post them all.
Cause that would be a lot, uh,
because we're going to talk
about a lot of stuff today.
So, um, yeah, that's kind of the
lay of the land with the services.
With, you know, Ion we
made better choices.
And then with Urza, we, we
made even better choices.
So, um, I think we'll kind of jump into
that now of kind of what's what are
we libraries that we're using now and,
um, kind of where have we come from.
>> Sure.
And we'll start with where
we started make sense.
Uh, as I mentioned for the kind of
database abstraction, We started
with Orville, which is a wrapper
around, uh, postgresql-simple.
If I remember correctly and that
worked great, uh, has a lot of things
that I really like, but one of the
downsides was that as I mentioned, most
of the validation happens at runtime.
So for instance, if you mistype a column
name or you get the column name, correct.
But say that it's the wrong type.
So you pulled a string, but you
thought it was an it, um, those checks.
Are only going to blow up for you
at runtime rather than compile time,
which, uh, you know, hopefully you
would cast catch in testing or catch
at some point, but it would be nice if
you could catch them at compile time.
So that motivated us to look
for a different library.
And there are many database abstraction
libraries available in Haskell.
Um, the one that we decided
to go with was persistent and
also esky Leto is kind of like.
Add on library for doing
more complicated SQL queries.
So we sometimes use that one when we
need to do a join or something like that.
But what persistent got us was the ability
to have, um, strongly typed queries.
So we would know that the
field we're querying for.
We got that name.
Correct.
And we would know that the type that
we're comparing that against is also
correct, or when we pull it out of the
database, that part is also correct.
So those are huge wins for us.
Um, and it means that stuff that you
used to have to catch either with
a test or in code review can now be
caught by the compiler, which is great.
Um, and that's, you know, just
one part, one little library, and
there are many other libraries
that can do that, but yeah.
>> Yeah.
And you know, the move, you know, Orville
with runtime issues to persistent was
a little bit of jump due to, you know,
it's more type level programming, um, in
a little bit more, uh, abstraction that
wasn't as like the Orville library is
pretty verbose and like creating tables
and you know, all these, like what these
fields look like and this kind of stuff.
Whereas like servant kind of like
says, okay, what do you want?
I'll generate it.
Sorry, persistent, but that leads me to
my next point of kind of the web app,
you know, web servers we were using, you
know, I mentioned earlier hat stack and
you know, Ion and Nucleus nucleus were
built on Happstack and it was great.
It started us off.
We got moving with it.
It, uh, you know, allowed us to
move a majority of our legacy
JavaScript API into Haskell.
So it was a great step, but we
started to see shortcomings with that.
Um, we started to.
Kind of get our wires crossed with
what routes were and where they were
like, how do they, what the types were.
And like you had to go, if you wanted
to know what something was going
to return to, you had to kind of
search for it by finding that file.
And then also you don't have
documentation out of the box.
So it just kind of created a lot
of little tensions and paper cuts
for us that eventually helped
us choose to go with servant.
Um, so servant is a type
leveled web server, um, or.
Yeah, type programming more or less
where you say, okay, my API, I'm
just going to have this type and
this is what's going to be returned.
It's kind of easy to
read, easy to comprehend.
And the handler function is, you
know, digestible kind of, uh, easy
to, to grok rather than having to
jump through all these hoops to
kind of figure out what's happening.
Um, and that was, you know, a big step
for us because we weren't really sure.
What servant would look like.
Um, but we, we took that step with
a smaller like side project and we
saw, okay, like this isn't too bad.
We kind of got the team on board.
And, you know, we, we ended up getting
some really great benefits out of
servant one of them being the swagger,
um, documentation that it can generate.
And that has really helped
with the product that us, as an
engineering team delivers to.
No, the, the front end team who needs to
understand and know what our API is doing.
So, um, you know, I'm
a big fan of servant.
It was definitely a shift, but I'm
really glad we ended up where we are.
Uh, and I'm looking forward to, uh,
getting everything into servant and
not having half stack any longer.
>> Yeah, I'm looking
forward to that as well.
And it's worth pointing out that
both persistent and servant are, uh,
new libraries that we are moving to.
So we haven't migrated everything over
yet, but we're getting there and we have
bought in on both of these libraries.
So we tried out some of the
alternatives and we've done like
little spikes for these to make
sure that they'll work for our case.
We're doing the tedious work of actually
moving every model, every end point
over into these new things and it's
going well, but we're just not done yet.
Um, and I wanted to mention one
of the upsides of hap stack was
something that we don't really, or
didn't really take advantage of.
It's really cleverly designed
and everything happens inside
this kind of server Monad.
So if you want to do routing that's in the
server, mine, if you want to get something
out of the query string or a header
or the body, that's all in the monad.
If you want to return something
or re uh, throw an exception to.
If something is not found, it's all in the
same Monad and it's actually really clever
how that's architected and it lets you
do some neat tricks to implement things.
But for us, like you mentioned, it
got really challenging to figure
out what route, what does the
route look like for this handler?
Or what does the, what does
the body supposed to look like?
Um, which feel like they should
be simple questions to answer.
And they're kind of hard with
happstack because so that architecture,
>> right.
And especially, you know, we
just kind of hit that point.
Yeah.
Too many routes to kind of like
quickly parse and digest what we needed
to do and wherever you need to go.
Um, yeah.
So we've talked about those two
libraries quite a bit, as far as like
what's new, uh, you know, and I, and
I'd like to talk a little bit more,
um, we use H spec for testing, so, you
know, I know there's a lot of different
testing options out there for us.
hspec has worked the best.
Uh, we've kind of just
started with it and gone.
Um, another thing we have created
for it per TV, ACI is the prolude.
Um, so that's our own custom prelude
and we're a big fans of that kind
of all those rote things we use all
the time from these little smaller
base libraries is, you know, nice
and easy to use or base packages.
I'm sorry.
Um, yeah.
It makes it a little easier to use.
>> Yeah.
And I wanted to go back
to hspec really quick.
Uh, one of the reasons that we use hspec
is that uh, not only is the manner of
writing the test cases really convenient
where, you know, it should do this thing
and then blah, blah, blah, should be that
like, it's a nice, uh, DSL for writing
tests, but the H spec discover kind
of, um, extra program that it runs to
discover all the tests is really nice.
Let's us avoid writing all
that boiler plate of like,
yeah, we wrote the test file.
Uh, but you actually have to
rig it up into the test suite
and you can forget to do that.
Or if you do remember,
it's still just tedious.
So having that done
automatically is super nice.
Um, and Cam, as you mentioned  with the
prolude which is our custom prelude.
We resisted this for a while.
And part of the motivation was
onboarding new people is probably
going to be easier if you don't have
a custom prelude, because everything
is the same as quote unquote normal.
But we discovered that we were
very, very often doing the same
things over and over again.
So we'd always import the
same library as the same way.
And use lots of the same
functions from them.
And we thought, okay, well, let's
take a data-driven approach to this
and analyze our code base to figure
out what things do we use the most.
And let's push them into a custom
prelude so that we don't have to
import those things all the time.
And this worked great for us.
It was just awesome way to
develop a custom prelude.
Um, and clearly there are some
things that are convenient to have
that you don't use all the time.
So this doesn't get everything,
but it gets a lot of things.
Shout out to Sarah, one of the engineers
on our team for doing that whole
process and developing this prolude
it's been a huge benefit to our team.
>> Agree, agree, agree.
Uh, yeah.
So, uh, you had mentioned something
earlier, Taylor, that we use AWS
for infrastructure, um, and AWS,
the library for Haskell really has
done the best and is the most well.
Explored would be amazonka which, you
know, they have, they made choices
that have made it maybe a little
harder sometimes for new, you know,
Haskell developers to figure it out.
But once you kind of start to understand
and see the conduits and see how kind of,
all of the information plays out amazonka
turns out to be in like all the lenses.
Like it turns out to be pretty nice.
Um, cause it is so vast and the
amount of services it supports
>> and covers.
Oh yeah.
It's a great library.
Uh, and it's, I'm pretty sure it's built
from Amazon's own description of their
API and their services and everything.
So.
Very, uh, it's got everything
it's comprehensive.
Um, and as you mentioned, it does have
some complexity, so it uses conduits and
it uses lenses, both of which are more
advanced concepts, but you notice, we
were talking about servant and persistent
earlier, which also use advanced
concepts with type level programming
and template Haskell, quasi quotes.
Um, and that's been kind of the
story of the development process.
Or the engineering process for us,
where, uh, we started with really simple
stuff, the types of things that we felt
comfortable, we could implement ourselves.
You know, if we needed to, obviously
we didn't write our own libraries for
everything, but, uh, we've been reaching
out to more advanced libraries and
techniques to push things into compile
time errors at the expense of maybe
they're a little harder to understand.
We feel less confident.
You know, could we implement
this type of thing ourselves?
Like, you know, I think given enough time,
we could probably write our own servant
library and there are great resources for
doing exactly that, but it's not something
everyone on the team could comfortably do.
>> Yeah.
And that's something, you know, like
you said, we try to keep it simple in
the beginning because I mean, myself
included, we were learning Haskell.
Like we didn't have.
Really, you know, understanding
of the functional paradigm
and the things going on.
So that's what we're wrestling with
mostly now, but the more advanced
things in high school, they were
way beyond our reach at that point.
And so I think as a team, we've done a
good job communicating with each other,
saying, okay, Hey, here's something
here's a limitation of this library,
but here's another one that could, you
know, it's a little harder, there's a
little more, uh, underneath the covers.
It's going to give you a little
bit more safety and benefits.
Um long-term um, so it's like a short term
complexity learn, but a long-term benefit.
And I think that's kind of the
line we tow as an engineering team
because we do know we're gonna grow.
We're gonna have new
engineers come on board.
And you know, there's not a
lot of high school developers
out there looking for jobs.
And so when we are looking for one,
we want to make sure it's appealing.
It's something that's, you know, One
way or the other, like we like to try
to, you know, be a middle ground for,
um, just how we write Haskell and how
we communicate and all those things.
So, um, yeah, that's.
You know, the reasons we've
made some of these choices and
how we kind of balance that.
>> Yeah.
And I think a great example of that is
not even switching libraries, but staying
with the whole library at the same time.
So like every, you know, web programmer,
we deal with JSON and we use the aeson
library to encode and decode JSON,
which is kind of the bog standard.
Everybody uses it library, but
the manner in which we use it
has changed over the years.
Two to four years.
Back in the day when we were writing
more, what you might call simple Haskell.
We wrote all of the instances by hand.
So we would define a datatype and then
we would define the, from JSON instance
and the to JSON instance, more recently,
we have moved away from doing that.
And instead we use generic
deriving to do those
for us.
So we don't have to
write that code anymore.
It gets written automatically, and we
can be sure that the implementation
of those functions matches the
shape of the data type, which is
something that anyone who's written.
These instances knows it's pretty easy to
accidentally, you know, miss name one of
the keys or get something flipped around.
Um, but another one of the motivations
for us actually ties in with the different
change we made switching to servant.
One of the benefits of servant is that
we get API documentation for free.
And part of that is that the types in
your API need to have schema instances,
and we could write those by hand,
but, and we have to keep not only
the data type and the JSON instance
in sync, but both of those have to
be in sync with the schema instance.
So that's a lot of code
that all has to change.
And you either have to catch it in
code review or write tests for it or
something, but, um, the easy way out
and the way that we took is to use
generic driving and that way your schema
instance matches your JSON instance.
Cause they both use the same
mechanism for generating that code.
And that's been really nice,
huge, uh, decrease in the amount
of code that we write and huge
increase in the consistency of it.
>> Yeah, it's been nice.
Um, we definitely have had some
tensions here and there with it
relating to build times and things.
Um, and Taylor's knows, he's been
working on some stuff to kind of
see what we can do about that.
But, you know, for the most part, the
benefits are there and, you know, yes.
Maybe a little bit more hand
wavy, but you have that comfort
of it's all, it's all the same.
It's all doing the same stuff
behind the scenes and yeah.
When you're dealing with really any,
any code base, you want to make sure
that at least there's consistency.
That's another thing within our team
that like, w we're trying to continue
to work towards this consistency in
naming, you know, imports, um, you
know, our style guide, you know?
So like there's some things
that, um, you know, you want to
make sure it's consistent and.
Generic derive and gives you that.
And I'm really grateful for
it because it's saved me a
ton of boiler plate time too.
Um, because we were starting to hit more
hiccups with like our JSON instances
and all those things of, oh, we encode
it one way,  but decode it another,
and then that's problematic and you're
really creating more work for yourself.
So, um, you know, yeah.
Anyways, uh, did we want to.
Kind of in the middle here of, um, you
know, all of our services, we've really
been talking about APIs at this point.
Uh, and we have four other services that
kind of do all four different things.
And so the another library that
we lean into is which, which
we talked about last week.
So if you miss last week's
podcast, go check it out.
Uh, that was actually written by Taylor.
It really allows us to switch
between, uh, types, a lot
easier and a lot more effective.
Um, and a little more
easy on the eyes as well.
Um, so yeah,
>> Taylor.
Yeah.
Uh, and that touches on what you had
mentioned earlier of consistency.
So, which as we talked about last
episode gives a consistent interface to
switch between or convert between types.
Um, and we've been talking a lot
about libraries, but that consistency
goes to other things as well.
So for instance, the
formatting of our code base.
This is contentious, not just in Haskell,
but in every programming language
of how should things be formatted.
Should it be up to the
individual developer?
Should you try to match the style
of the file that you're editing.
Uh, should there be kind of a house
style that everyone follows or should
a tool enforce the style and we've
chosen to have a tool enforce the style.
So we use Brittany to format all of
our source code and, uh, this took
some, uh, you know, discussion among
the team to land on a configuration
that we were comfortable with.
And then we had to have this big bang PR.
Everything gets formatted with Brittany
and we switched everything over.
But I think the end result has been
really nice and we actually test
it in our CI environment as well.
So we know that when code gets
merged into the main branch, it
is all formatted the same way.
And it may not be anyone's
preferred format, but everyone
is comfortable with it.
And you don't have to think
about formatting anymore.
You just run it through
Brittany and you're done.
So that's been really nice.
You know, for me, it makes it a
lot easier to review code because
everything has the same visual style
and I know what expressions should
look like, what types should look like.
So it's a lot easier to skim over.
>> Right.
doesn't disorient you.
Um, yeah.
I know another tool that we use,
um, for our code base and kind of,
kind of creating some sort of rules
around function, choices or line with.
Well, I guess Brittany really
handles line with, but, uh, you know,
restricting functions or restricting
certain, um, language extension.
So those kinds of things we use hlint
to um, or Clint, if you're read it,
read it straight forward, but that
allows us to have, you know, our own
configuration to say, yes, We're okay
with this, but we're not okay with this.
And if you see something like
this, change it out for this.
Um, which is, I know a lot of this
is, but it does give you that like
consistency across the code base,
that you're not like one file using
this function, which is really the
same as what's doing done in another
function, but it's written differently.
And so like kind of creating
that consistencies with hlint
has really helped, um, our
development process as well.
>> Yeah.
And this also helps with
onboarding because there are some
things that you can rule out.
Uh, for instance, since we have our own
custom prelude, we can exclude functions
from the prelude that we don't like,
you know, like head, which is partial.
And instead we want to either
pattern match on it or use
something like, um, safe head or
one of those various functions.
Um, and if we didn't.
Or for functions that, uh, are in our
prelude, but are, you know, questionable.
Maybe we can have an hlint rule that
just says, uh, this isn't preferred.
Here's another way to do it.
But if you know what you're doing,
you can disable the hlint rule
there and be on your Merry way.
So it's a good way of teaching
more junior developers or people
were onboarding about, uh, the
style that we like to write in.
And by and large, we use the same
community hlint rules as everyone else.
So it's the community style.
>> Yeah.
You know, I know we, um, we have a rule
in there for the, uh, utterable IO,
>> accursed unutterable
IO that unsafe perform IO yeah.
That was,
>> can't use those, but,
uh, you know, maybe next week I'll
ask Taylor to, to let us happen.
And, uh, yeah, so like, I mean, we're
just kind of starting on the tools and,
you know, Kind of get quick in this next
little bit, because we're going to kind of
talk about our, to day-to-day development
tools, our editors, and kind of what our
locals and local environments look like.
Um, so we use stack for
majority of our services.
One of them uses cabal, um, to build and
manage, um, packages and all that stuff.
And then, uh, so that's kind of.
Pretty, you know, I know there's people
who are one side versus the other, but we
chose to use stack and it's worked well
for us, but we're not opposed to cabal.
So we have a cabal package, uh, and
then we have ghcid um, for development
as well as HLS or purple yolk.
So those three kind of, uh, amongst
the team are used in different ways.
So I'm usually a ghcid
kind of guy where I run it.
Um, I have used purple yolk before, but
HLS has been, always giving me issue.
So I kind of, I kind
of shy away from that.
>> Yeah.
And purple yoke, not super well-known
it's something that I wrote.
It's just a vs.
Code extension that basically
works the same as GHC ID, where it
fires up, ghci in the background.
And when you save a file reloads
ghci and then shows you the
warnings and errors in your editor.
And I wrote it because HLS is a fantastic
piece of software and it's amazing
and it's way more powerful than purple
yoke, but it's also, um, the, I dunno,
rickety maybe is the best word I can use
to describe it where when it works, it
is amazing, but it doesn't always work.
And that was frustrating to me.
I prefer.
Uh, more stupid tools
that are more reliable.
So that's why I built purple yolk,
but we also use GHC ID because
it's kind of the quintessential
stupid tool that just works.
So, um, yeah, we, we have a lot
of options there for our quick
feedback loop in development.
>> Yeah.
I like, I like ghcid cause it's kiss.
Keep it stupid.
Keep it simple, stupid, not stupid either.
I guess either one works, but yeah.
Yeah.
And like you said, vs code is, you
know, generally the term, you know,
the editor that everybody uses.
Um, we do have any max guy.
We love him to death.
He's awesome.
And he also is the next guy as well.
So, you know, he he's, he's
trying to work a sandwich.
It's totally, totally admirable.
So, um, he's our Emacs nix user.
And then for local development, We use
Docker and Docker compose to lift up
our services and create local networks
that commute, they can communicate
with each other and all that stuff.
Um, that way it's any machine can run it.
Not machine dependent.
It's all kind of built into the
Docker images and those will be run.
So that is kind of the
rundown on our tooling.
I'm sorry.
Kind of just whizzed by it.
But if you guys have any more comments
or questions or you want us to dive
deeper, obviously, you know, you know
where to find us just comment, we will.
Take it into account and look
at, uh, maybe expounding upon it.
>> Yeah.
And I just wanted to a
quick mention about Docker.
Um, we use it both for local development
and for our production deployments,
which has been really nice because at
any point you can grab the Docker image.
That's actually running in production
and run it locally and see, you
know, how exactly does it behave.
Um, but also for local development, it's
been really nice to reduce, not entirely
eliminate, but almost entirely eliminate.
The works on my machine syndrome,
where one developer has something
that works great and then they
push it up and the other developer
pulls it down and doesn't work.
Um, we have very, very few of those
problems and it's mostly due to Docker.
Um, not to say that it's the only solution
to that problem, but that it has more
or less solved that problem for us.
>> Yup.
For sure.
Cool.
So we talked about tooling.
I did want to kind of jump in
real quick to kind of code layout.
How do we structure our code and what
are some of the choices we made along
the way to, to be where we are today?
Um, so Taylor, you wanna start
>> us off?
Sure.
Uh, the way that we like to lay
out code today is to more or
less have one module per type.
And it's a little tedious because
there's a certain amount of overhead
involved with making a new module.
But the benefit is that when you
want to use that type, you can import
that module and you can import it
qualified, which we normally do.
And then you can use really
short identifiers in that module.
So you don't have to make names
that are globally unique or even
unique among a bunch of stuff.
It just has to be unique
within that module, which is
usually pretty easy to do.
Um, and we actually arrived at this
because in our list of services up
at the top, we had nucleus, uh, we
used to have another service called
metrics, and then they got pushed
together into one service called ion.
Um, and we had.
Catch all module.
That was the glue between those two
modules, all the stuff that was common.
And that meant that it
had a lot of stuff in it.
And we had to make the names
unique within that module.
And that was painful.
Um, and that's part of the reason,
I guess we didn't say this, but
our main code base is called Smurf.
And the reason we called it that is
that we ended up with a lot of repeated
names where you'd have something.
Person dot person, name of person and are
like, okay, this is getting ridiculous.
Now we need to do something about it.
Um, so that's why we're trying to
move toward the one module per type.
We are moving toward that.
Um, yeah, that that's for our types
and stuff, but cam, do you want to
talk about how our API is set up?
>> Uh, yeah, so, yeah, so, um, like
Taylor said, we have one module per type.
And we have separated like our
types our queries and our API, uh,
handlers in the separate files and
in a different structure that way.
Uh, you know, we're not trying to import
something from an API that's in another
API or anything along those lines.
And we also pull out, uh,
you know, more common actions
into separate files as well.
So, you know, say you
want to create a course.
Well, you know, or a
person, you know, like we.
The person action, and then
we'd have a run for it.
And that would give us a new person.
And so, um, some people would
say, that's not the way making
people work, but you know, we're
not going to get into that today.
Um, it just, uh, came to my head.
So I am, but then we also have, uh,
each handler is in their own file.
So with our servant handlers, You know,
the route and the handler in there.
So it's a little easier to
comprehend what's going on.
And then in our nucleus and ion, uh,
handlers, it's just kinda the handler
fabulous supporting functionality.
And, you know, I have a dog who likes
to bark in the middle of a podcast.
So, um, we'll see if we can edit that out.
If not, that was my dog, Ruth.
>> Yep.
Hi Ruth.
Um, but yeah, one thing I wanted
to go over there again, was that
you mentioned actions in separate
files for stuff like creating.
users.
Uh, this is a pattern known as, uh, like
a command object in a different language.
And in fact, at a previous job, I
worked in Ruby and I worked with a
coworker of mine, Aaron, to develop
a library called active interaction.
And so that's kind of, I pushed for
this in our code base here because I
was really familiar with the concept.
And it's surprisingly powerful of let's
take this thing that we want to do.
That's complicated and pull it
out into its own file and have
well-defined inputs and outputs.
Which granted you get for free in Haskell,
that's the type system, but, uh, pull it
out over there so that if you want to call
it from the API, or if you wanna call it
from a script or you want to call it from
a job, they can all just use that thing
and you don't have to worry like, oh crap.
Well, when you make a user in
the API, it does it this way.
But when you call the script,
it does this other way.
And then those things, invariably
get out of sync with each other.
>> Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
We had that issue, especially when we
were starting to move, um, kind of legacy
end points from ion a nucleus into Urza.
We would kind of have this two
definitions of these things in the
meantime, and then change one and
then the other were having issues.
So, uh, kind of moving towards
that actual file kind of isolate.
You know, and, and more or less kind
of siloed what that, what was happening
rather than kind of trying to do
anything, not the wild wild west.
Um, and you did kind of
touch on the scripts.
Um, you know, business needs various needs
and reports and metrics are returned or,
you know, things merged or this or that.
So we kind of have a, uh, a whole
directory of scripts that are just
kind of runoff one-off scripts.
We can run whenever the person needs
it or whatever, or we'll create
a new one if we don't have it.
Uh, and those are kind of also 11 Smurf.
That's just like a thing we can run
on our local machines connect to
the database and we're good to go.
>> Yeah.
And a quick note there about kind
of the life cycle often we'll get
a request for a new report type
and we'll write a script for it.
Cause that's the easiest thing for us.
And then if we get a, another
request for a report of that same.
We will start to think, okay, maybe
we need to put this into a job.
Something that can run, you know, every
week, every month, something like.
Or we need to expose it to our internal,
you know, staff users so that they can
just click a button and get that report
rather than having them to ask us for it.
So often things that start off in
scripts will kind of graduate into
becoming an action that then is
exposed through a job or a web UI.
>> Yup.
Yup.
And you know, that's kinda, uh,
what quantum does is handles is
our it's our job, uh, manager and
using odd jobs, like we said, right.
And so know that's definitely, you know,
even this week we had a script that was,
uh, that was running for about 30 minutes.
It was like, that was the runtime for it.
And so we kind of evaluated.
I said, oh yeah.
Like when things start to go like that,
we say, okay, what can we do differently?
And we take a look at the code and we kind
of dissect it and see what's going on.
Well, we saw, we had a re repetitive.
We were making database
calls within a loop.
And so rather than just trying to get
all the information at once, we were
trying to do it eat for each company we
had, which we got a lot of companies.
So that was, you know, begging
our CPU usage on our database
and, um, taking forever to run.
So, um, we pulled that out, like fix
that up and then that, that down about
42 seconds and turn that into a job
because it is a monthly report that is
asked for a lot in 30 minutes a month.
That 30 minutes a month can be expensive,
especially because if you're trying
to do something else and you forget
to ever send it to the people who
need it, there's a lot of things there
that can kind of create these hiccups.
So that is kind of what even bred
the idea of quantum and our job queue
is like this kind of repetitive rote
thing that was always happening that
doesn't really need engineering.
And we can kind of push it off
and automate part parts of our
job, which has been a huge, huge.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
Well, cam, as you mentioned earlier,
we're always happy to get, uh, questions
or comments from our listeners.
So if you, you know, we, it sounds like
we've been talking for a long time about a
lot of different things, but really we've
just been scratching the surface here.
If there's any part of this that
you want to hear more about.
If there's something that we
didn't mention that you're
curious about, please let us.
We're on Twitter.
It's probably the easiest
way to get ahold of us.
Just go to Twitter.com/HaskellWeekly..
Um, but I'm pretty sure those
were all the things that I had
to cover at least for today.
Cam, was there anything
else that you wanted to go?
>> I mean, like you said,
we're just scratching the surface.
So I think this is a good start
and, uh, would love to hear your
feedback and we can definitely
expound upon things as you'd like.
So just really appreciate
you guys joining us.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
So, thanks for listening to
the Haskell weekly podcast.
I have been your host Taylor Fausak.
And with me today was Cameron Gera.
If you want to find out more about
us, like I said, we're on Twitter
or you can go to our website,
which is HaskellWeekly.News.
>> And we're brought to
you, by our employer, ITProTV,
an ACI Learning company.
They would like to offer you 30% off the
lifetime of your subscription by using the
promo code HaskellWeekly30 at checkout.
All you gotta do is go to ITPro.TV, and
you'll see how you can sign up there.
Um, and that HaskellWeekly30
promo code will get you 30% off.
So I think that about does it for us.
Thanks again for joining us
on the Haskell Weekly podcast
and we'll see you next week.